AppCreationScripts/Steps.md, before:

---
services: active-directory
platforms: dotnet
author: jmprieur
level: 200
client: Python Web App
service: Microsoft Graph
endpoint: AAD V1
---
# Calling Microsoft Graph from a Web App using ADAL.python

![Build badge](https://identitydivision.visualstudio.com/_apis/public/build/definitions/a7934fdd-dcde-4492-a406-7fad6ac00e17/<BuildNumber>/badge)

## About this sample

### Overview

This sample demonstrates a Python Web App application calling a Microsoft Graph that is secured using Azure Active Directory.

1. The .Net TodoListClient Python Web App application uses the Active Directory Authentication Library (ADAL) to obtain a JWT access token from Azure Active Directory (Azure AD):
2. The access token is used as a bearer token to authenticate the user when calling the Microsoft Graph.

![Overview](./ReadmeFiles/topology.png)

### Scenario

> Describe the scenario
> Insert a screen copy of the client

## How to run this sample

To run this sample, you'll need:

- [Visual Studio 2017](https://aka.ms/vsdownload)
- An Internet connection
- An Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant. For more information on how to get an Azure AD tenant, see [How to get an Azure AD tenant](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/active-directory-howto-tenant/)
- A user account in your Azure AD tenant. This sample will not work with a Microsoft account (formerly Windows Live account). Therefore, if you signed in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) with a Microsoft account and have never created a user account in your directory before, you need to do that now.

### Step 1:  Clone or download this repository

From your shell or command line:

`git clone `

> Given that the name of the sample is pretty long, and so are the name of the referenced NuGet pacakges, you might want to clone it in a folder close to the root of your hard drive, to avoid file size limitations on Windows.

### Step 2:  Register the sample with your Azure Active Directory tenant

There are one projects in this sample. Each needs to be separately registered in your Azure AD tenant. To register these projects, you can:

- either follow the steps in the paragraphs below ([Step 2](#step-2--register-the-sample-with-your-azure-active-directory-tenant) and [Step 3](#step-3--configure-the-sample-to-use-your-azure-ad-tenant))
- or use PowerShell scripts that:
  - **automatically** create for you the Azure AD applications and related objects (passwords, permissions, dependencies)
  - modify the Visual Studio projects' configuration files.

If you want to use this automation, read the instructions in [App Creation Scripts](./AppCreationScripts/AppCreationScripts.md)

#### First step: choose the Azure AD tenant where you want to create your applications

As a first step you'll need to:

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).
1. On the top bar, click on your account and under the **Directory** list, choose the Active Directory tenant where you wish to register your application.
1. Click on **All services** in the left-hand nav, and choose **Azure Active Directory**.

> In the next steps, you might need the tenant name (or directory name) or the tenant ID (or directory ID). These are presented in the **Properties**
  of the Azure Active Directory window respectively as *Name* and *Directory ID*

#### Register the webApp app (App)

1. In the  **Azure Active Directory** pane, click on **App registrations** and choose **New application registration**.
1. Enter a friendly name for the application, for example 'App' and select 'Web app / API' as the *Application Type*.
1. For the *sign-on URL*, enter the base URL for the sample, which is by default `https://localhost:5000/`.
1. Click on **Create** to create the application.
1. In the succeeding page, Find the *Application ID* value and copy it to the clipboard. You'll need it to configure the Visual Studio configuration file for this project.
1. Then click on **Settings**, and choose **Properties**.
1. For the App ID URI, replace the guid in the generated URI 'https://\<your_tenant_name\>/\<guid\>', with the name of your service, for example, 'https://\<your_tenant_name\>/App' (replacing `<your_tenant_name>` with the name of your Azure AD tenant)
1. From the Settings menu, choose **Keys** and add a new entry in the Password section:

   - Type a key description (of instance `app secret`),
   - Select a key duration of either **In 1 year**, **In 2 years**, or **Never Expires**.
   - When you save this page, the key value will be displayed, copy, and save the value in a safe location.
   - You'll need this key later to configure the project in Visual Studio. This key value will not be displayed again, nor retrievable by any other means,
     so record it as soon as it is visible from the Azure portal.
1. Configure Permissions for your application. To that extent, in the Settings menu, choose the 'Required permissions' section and then,
   click on **Add**, then **Select an API**, and type `Microsoft Graph` in the textbox. Then, click on  **Select Permissions** and select **User.Read**.

### Step 3:  Configure the sample to use your Azure AD tenant

In the steps below, ClientID is the same as Application ID or AppId.

Open the solution in Visual Studio to configure the projects

#### Configure the app project

1. Open the `config.py` file
1. Find the app key `TENANT` and replace the existing value with your AAD tenant name.
1. Find the app key `CLIENT_SECRET` and replace the existing value with service.AppKey.
1. Find the app key `CLIENT_ID` and replace the existing value with service.AppId.

### Step 4: Run the sample

Clean the solution, rebuild the solution, and run it.  You might want to go into the solution properties and set both projects as startup projects, with the service project starting first.

> Explain how to Explore the sample.

## About the code

> Describe:
> - where the code uses auth libraries, or calls the graph
> - specific aspects (cache)

## How to deploy this sample to Azure

This project has one WebApp / Web API projects. To deploy them to Azure Web Sites, you'll need, for each one, to:

- create an Azure Web Site
- publish the Web App / Web APIs to the web site, and
- update its client(s) to call the web site instead of IIS Express.

### Create and Publish the `App` to an Azure Web Site

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).
2. Click New in the top left-hand corner, select Web + Mobile --> Web App, select the hosting plan and region, and give your web site a name, for example, `App-contoso.azurewebsites.net`.  Click Create Web Site.
3. Once the web site is created, click on it to manage it.  For this set of steps, download the publish profile and save it.  Other deployment mechanisms, such as from source control, can also be used.
4. Switch to Visual Studio and go to the TodoListService project.  Right click on the project in the Solution Explorer and select Publish.  Click Import, and import the publish profile that you downloaded.
5. On the Connection tab, update the Destination URL so that it is https, for example [https://App-contoso.azurewebsites.net](https://App-contoso.azurewebsites.net). Click Next.
6. On the Settings tab, make sure Enable Organizational Authentication is NOT selected.  Click Publish.
7. Visual Studio will publish the project and automatically open a browser to the URL of the project.  If you see the default web page of the project, the publication was successful.

### Update the Active Directory tenant application registration for `App`

1. Navigate to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).
2. On the top bar, click on your account and under the **Directory** list, choose the Active Directory tenant containing the `App` application.
3. On the applications tab, select the `App` application.
4. From the Settings -> Properties and Settings -> Reply URLs menus, update the Sign-On URL, and Reply URL fields to the address of your service, for example [https://App-contoso.azurewebsites.net](https://App-contoso.azurewebsites.net). Save the configuration.

> NOTE: Remember, the To Do list is stored in memory in this TodoListService sample. Azure Web Sites will spin down your web site if it is inactive, and your To Do list will get emptied.
Also, if you increase the instance count of the web site, requests will be distributed among the instances. To Do will, therefore, not be the same on each instance.

## Community Help and Support

Use [Stack Overflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/adal) to get support from the community.
Ask your questions on Stack Overflow first and browse existing issues to see if someone has asked your question before.
Make sure that your questions or comments are tagged with [`adal` `dotnet`].

If you find a bug in the sample, please raise the issue on [GitHub Issues](../../issues).

To provide a recommendation, visit the following [User Voice page](https://feedback.azure.com/forums/169401-azure-active-directory).

## Contributing

If you'd like to contribute to this sample, see [CONTRIBUTING.MD](/CONTRIBUTING.md).

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/). For more information, see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

## More information

For more information, see ADAL.NET's conceptual documentation:

> Provide links to the flows from the conceptual documentation
> for instance:
- [Recommended pattern to acquire a token](https://github.com/AzureAD/azure-activedirectory-library-for-dotnet/wiki/AcquireTokenSilentAsync-using-a-cached-token#recommended-pattern-to-acquire-a-token)
- [Acquiring tokens interactively in public client applications](https://github.com/AzureAD/azure-activedirectory-library-for-dotnet/wiki/Acquiring-tokens-interactively---Public-client-application-flows)
- [Customizing Token cache serialization](https://github.com/AzureAD/azure-activedirectory-library-for-dotnet/wiki/Token-cache-serialization)

For more information about how OAuth 2.0 protocols work in this scenario and other scenarios, see [Authentication Scenarios for Azure AD](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=394414).

Commit message:

Adding custom Reply URLs in the apps.json, which updates the Configure.ps1 script and the Steps.md file

AppCreationScripts/Steps.md, after:

---
services: active-directory
platforms: dotnet
author: jmprieur
level: 200
client: Python Web App
service: Microsoft Graph
endpoint: AAD V1
---
# Calling Microsoft Graph from a Web App using ADAL.python

![Build badge](https://identitydivision.visualstudio.com/_apis/public/build/definitions/a7934fdd-dcde-4492-a406-7fad6ac00e17/<BuildNumber>/badge)

## About this sample

### Overview

This sample demonstrates a Python Web App application calling a Microsoft Graph that is secured using Azure Active Directory.

1. The .Net TodoListClient Python Web App application uses the Active Directory Authentication Library (ADAL) to obtain a JWT access token from Azure Active Directory (Azure AD):
2. The access token is used as a bearer token to authenticate the user when calling the Microsoft Graph.

![Overview](./ReadmeFiles/topology.png)

### Scenario

> Describe the scenario
> Insert a screen copy of the client

## How to run this sample

To run this sample, you'll need:

- [Visual Studio 2017](https://aka.ms/vsdownload)
- An Internet connection
- An Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant. For more information on how to get an Azure AD tenant, see [How to get an Azure AD tenant](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/active-directory-howto-tenant/)
- A user account in your Azure AD tenant. This sample will not work with a Microsoft account (formerly Windows Live account). Therefore, if you signed in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) with a Microsoft account and have never created a user account in your directory before, you need to do that now.

### Step 1:  Clone or download this repository

From your shell or command line:

`git clone `

> Given that the name of the sample is pretty long, and so are the name of the referenced NuGet pacakges, you might want to clone it in a folder close to the root of your hard drive, to avoid file size limitations on Windows.

### Step 2:  Register the sample with your Azure Active Directory tenant

There are one projects in this sample. Each needs to be separately registered in your Azure AD tenant. To register these projects, you can:

- either follow the steps in the paragraphs below ([Step 2](#step-2--register-the-sample-with-your-azure-active-directory-tenant) and [Step 3](#step-3--configure-the-sample-to-use-your-azure-ad-tenant))
- or use PowerShell scripts that:
  - **automatically** create for you the Azure AD applications and related objects (passwords, permissions, dependencies)
  - modify the Visual Studio projects' configuration files.

If you want to use this automation, read the instructions in [App Creation Scripts](./AppCreationScripts/AppCreationScripts.md)

#### First step: choose the Azure AD tenant where you want to create your applications

As a first step you'll need to:

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).
1. On the top bar, click on your account and under the **Directory** list, choose the Active Directory tenant where you wish to register your application.
1. Click on **All services** in the left-hand nav, and choose **Azure Active Directory**.

> In the next steps, you might need the tenant name (or directory name) or the tenant ID (or directory ID). These are presented in the **Properties**
  of the Azure Active Directory window respectively as *Name* and *Directory ID*

#### Register the webApp app (App)

1. In the  **Azure Active Directory** pane, click on **App registrations** and choose **New application registration**.
1. Enter a friendly name for the application, for example 'App' and select 'Web app / API' as the *Application Type*.
1. For the *sign-on URL*, enter the base URL for the sample, which is by default `https://localhost:5000/`.
1. Click on **Create** to create the application.
1. In the succeeding page, Find the *Application ID* value and copy it to the clipboard. You'll need it to configure the Visual Studio configuration file for this project.
1. Then click on **Settings**, and choose **Properties**.
1. For the App ID URI, replace the guid in the generated URI 'https://\<your_tenant_name\>/\<guid\>', with the name of your service, for example, 'https://\<your_tenant_name\>/App' (replacing `<your_tenant_name>` with the name of your Azure AD tenant)
1. rom the **Settings** | **Reply URLs** page for your application, update the Reply URL for the application to be `https://localhost:5000/getAToken`
1. From the Settings menu, choose **Keys** and add a new entry in the Password section:

   - Type a key description (of instance `app secret`),
   - Select a key duration of either **In 1 year**, **In 2 years**, or **Never Expires**.
   - When you save this page, the key value will be displayed, copy, and save the value in a safe location.
   - You'll need this key later to configure the project in Visual Studio. This key value will not be displayed again, nor retrievable by any other means,
     so record it as soon as it is visible from the Azure portal.
1. Configure Permissions for your application. To that extent, in the Settings menu, choose the 'Required permissions' section and then,
   click on **Add**, then **Select an API**, and type `Microsoft Graph` in the textbox. Then, click on  **Select Permissions** and select **User.Read**.

### Step 3:  Configure the sample to use your Azure AD tenant

In the steps below, ClientID is the same as Application ID or AppId.

Open the solution in Visual Studio to configure the projects

#### Configure the app project

1. Open the `config.py` file
1. Find the app key `TENANT` and replace the existing value with your AAD tenant name.
1. Find the app key `CLIENT_SECRET` and replace the existing value with the key you saved during the creation of the `App` app, in the Azure portal.
1. Find the app key `CLIENT_ID` and replace the existing value with the application ID (clientId) of the `App` application copied from the Azure portal.

### Step 4: Run the sample

Clean the solution, rebuild the solution, and run it.  You might want to go into the solution properties and set both projects as startup projects, with the service project starting first.

> Explain how to Explore the sample.

## About the code

> Describe:
> - where the code uses auth libraries, or calls the graph
> - specific aspects (cache)

## How to deploy this sample to Azure

This project has one WebApp / Web API projects. To deploy them to Azure Web Sites, you'll need, for each one, to:

- create an Azure Web Site
- publish the Web App / Web APIs to the web site, and
- update its client(s) to call the web site instead of IIS Express.

### Create and Publish the `App` to an Azure Web Site

1. Sign in to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).
2. Click New in the top left-hand corner, select Web + Mobile --> Web App, select the hosting plan and region, and give your web site a name, for example, `App-contoso.azurewebsites.net`.  Click Create Web Site.
3. Once the web site is created, click on it to manage it.  For this set of steps, download the publish profile and save it.  Other deployment mechanisms, such as from source control, can also be used.
4. Switch to Visual Studio and go to the TodoListService project.  Right click on the project in the Solution Explorer and select Publish.  Click Import, and import the publish profile that you downloaded.
5. On the Connection tab, update the Destination URL so that it is https, for example [https://App-contoso.azurewebsites.net](https://App-contoso.azurewebsites.net). Click Next.
6. On the Settings tab, make sure Enable Organizational Authentication is NOT selected.  Click Publish.
7. Visual Studio will publish the project and automatically open a browser to the URL of the project.  If you see the default web page of the project, the publication was successful.

### Update the Active Directory tenant application registration for `App`

1. Navigate to the [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com).
2. On the top bar, click on your account and under the **Directory** list, choose the Active Directory tenant containing the `App` application.
3. On the applications tab, select the `App` application.
4. From the Settings -> Properties and Settings -> Reply URLs menus, update the Sign-On URL, and Reply URL fields to the address of your service, for example [https://App-contoso.azurewebsites.net](https://App-contoso.azurewebsites.net). Save the configuration.

> NOTE: Remember, the To Do list is stored in memory in this TodoListService sample. Azure Web Sites will spin down your web site if it is inactive, and your To Do list will get emptied.
Also, if you increase the instance count of the web site, requests will be distributed among the instances. To Do will, therefore, not be the same on each instance.

## Community Help and Support

Use [Stack Overflow](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/adal) to get support from the community.
Ask your questions on Stack Overflow first and browse existing issues to see if someone has asked your question before.
Make sure that your questions or comments are tagged with [`adal` `dotnet`].

If you find a bug in the sample, please raise the issue on [GitHub Issues](../../issues).

To provide a recommendation, visit the following [User Voice page](https://feedback.azure.com/forums/169401-azure-active-directory).

## Contributing

If you'd like to contribute to this sample, see [CONTRIBUTING.MD](/CONTRIBUTING.md).

This project has adopted the [Microsoft Open Source Code of Conduct](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/). For more information, see the [Code of Conduct FAQ](https://opensource.microsoft.com/codeofconduct/faq/) or contact [opencode@microsoft.com](mailto:opencode@microsoft.com) with any additional questions or comments.

## More information

For more information, see ADAL.NET's conceptual documentation:

> Provide links to the flows from the conceptual documentation
> for instance:
- [Recommended pattern to acquire a token](https://github.com/AzureAD/azure-activedirectory-library-for-dotnet/wiki/AcquireTokenSilentAsync-using-a-cached-token#recommended-pattern-to-acquire-a-token)
- [Acquiring tokens interactively in public client applications](https://github.com/AzureAD/azure-activedirectory-library-for-dotnet/wiki/Acquiring-tokens-interactively---Public-client-application-flows)
- [Customizing Token cache serialization](https://github.com/AzureAD/azure-activedirectory-library-for-dotnet/wiki/Token-cache-serialization)

For more information about how OAuth 2.0 protocols work in this scenario and other scenarios, see [Authentication Scenarios for Azure AD](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=394414).
